I am very pleased to present to you, on behalf of the Pennsylvania State Transportation Commission,
the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, and our many Transportation Partners across the state,
the 2019 Pennsylvania Twelve Year Transportation Program.
The Twelve Year Transportation Program, or TYP,
is updated every two years in partnership with our Metropolitan and Rural Planning Organizations
and many other key stakeholders including you.
This is Pennsylvania's most comprehensive tool to identify and prioritize multimodal projects.
As such, the 2019 TYP represents PennDOT's continued commitment to enhanced decision-making
and the purposeful planning initiatives launched during the 2017 program development process.
I commend our regional transportation Planning Partners and the State Transportation Commission
for their continued dedication to this critical planning process, and extensive public engagement efforts.
And of course, again, my thanks to you, for contributing your time, comments, ideas and projects.
Planning for the many transportation modes associated with Pennsylvania’s immense transportation system
impacts every resident, business, and visitor of the Commonwealth.
Together, we will continue to find solutions to sustain
and expand mobility throughout the Commonwealth today, and well into the future.